---
layout: post
title: "Think"
comments: true
author: Dan McClain
twitter: "\_danmcclain"
github: danmcclain
social: true
summary: "Don't do what others tell you to do without thinking about it"
published: true
tags: ruby on rails, gems, postgres_ext, postgresql
---

Ever since [Matt Aimonetti's talk at
Wicked Good Ruby](http://wickedgoodruby.com/2013/speakers/matt_aimonetti)
on there being such thing as bad code, I've felt I've
needed to write a blog post about the [cargo
culting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cargo_cult) that happens in
the development world. 

# Sandi Metz's Rules

Back in January, [Sandi Metz was on Ruby
Rogues](ihttp://rubyrogues.com/087-rr-book-clubpractical-object-oriented-design-in-ruby-with-sandi-metz/)
to discuss her book, **[Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby](http://www.amazon.com/Practical-Object-Oriented-Design-Ruby-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321721330/)**.
Out of this conversation came "[Sandi Metz's
rules](https://gist.github.com/henrik/4509394)". Many
in the Ruby community took these rules as gospel, without knowing the
context in which these rules were created.

The rules, for those unfamilar:

 1 Your class can be no longer than 100 lines of code
 2 Your methods can be no longer than five lines of code
 3 You can pass no more than four parameters and you can’t just make it one big hash
 4 When a call comes into your Rails controller, you can only instantiate one object to do whatever it is that needs to be done

Sandi joined Matt during his talk at Wicked Good Ruby and gave some background to the
story of her rules. To paraphase Sandi, at the
time she was working with a group that had multi-thousand line controllers with
multi-hundred line methods. These controllers and methods represented on
end of a spectrum, which made code incredibly hard to read and maintain.
They were begging Sandi for guidelines with which they should try to
correct this problem. What she did was create a set of rules that
lived on the opposite side of the extreme, to force them to meet
somewhere in a reasonable center.

In reality, these rules are a different way of looking at rules many of
us strive for in the first place. An example: The 100 lines per class
rule is really forcing you to create classes with the [Single
Responsibility Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle) in mind.

My issue is not with these rules as they exist, but with the
community's cargo culting of these rules and treating them as The Four
Commandments. I don't have an issue with you following them, as long as
you understand why they exist, and you feel as though they are
principles you believe in. Don't just make five line methods because
Sandi said so, and if you follow these rules, you feel like you'll be a
great developer. Adhering to Sandi's rules does not make one great, it's
understanding where these, or any rules, should and shouldn't apply.
Sometimes a method that spans more than five lines will be more readable
and maintainable than the same method spread across five or six 5-line
methods. Striking that balance is where the power lies.

# REMOTE

37signals just published
[REMOTE](http://www.amazon.com/Remote-Office-Required-Jason-Fried/dp/0804137501/), a book about
the benefits allowing remote workers. I don't disagree that remote
working has many benefits. At DockYard, we all work from home from time
to time. We also strive to have people in the office more often than
not, not because Brian doesn't think we aren't working when we aren't in
the office, but because it enables greater collaboration.

DockYard is a consultancy; we have client work with deadlines we have to
meet. With having our developers and designers in the office together more
often than not, it removes the latency from discussing issues. I can
walk over to Steve and we can hash out an issue in a few minutes. If we
were all remote, I'd have to ping him on HipChat, hope he's at his desk,
try to go over the issue text-only until we realize we need to have a
Google Hangout, etc. It makes more sense for us to be in the same place.

The other benefit of DockYard working from the office is that our junior
developers enjoy the same face-to-face benefits. Also, body language
makes a huge difference when teaching or learning topic. When someone pauses,
has a slightly puzzled look on their face and says "....Ok", it easy to
realize that a bit more background on the topic will really let them
grasp the topic, but an "ok" in HipChat removes all the body language we
could leverage.

Removing the latency between a junior developer having a
question and getting the answer is crucial. If a junior developer has a
question that's a show stopper, they can feel helpless while they wait
for someone to be around to answer that question. That helplessness is
killer; it makes someone feel like they aren't helping, and can
potentially prevent them from asking other questions. If the that delay
is interperated as the senior developer blowing them off, they will be
less inclined to ask questions in the future, hurting both themselves
and the team.

A product company that employs experts (or creators) of a framework has
a much different situation, where working remote makes a lot more sense.
The conversations they have will be at a different level. They'll all
have intimate knowledge of the code base, and so a few questions back
and forth or a quick Google Hangout achieves a great deal. The
conclusion was a result of the context they exist in. Remote workers
work great for them because they have the perfect mix of experts in
their domain; are working on products, which have very different
requirements and issues of client work; and have a customer support
group, which don't necessarily need to collaborate while working a
customer through issues.

# Figure Out What Works for YOU

In no way am I saying you should all work in the same office and
disregard Sandi's rules. What I'm asking of the community is a bit of
critical thought. Just because someone smart said something doesn't
mean it's gospel. Realize that experience has led that person to that
conculsion, weigh your experience against it, and apply it if you can.

Let's just not hope that the gods give us food because we made bamboo
airplanes. Let's realize that moving to XYZ comes with both drawbacks and
benefits, not just the benefits that everyone is touting.
